this is Heather Nichols and welcome to
another make it Monday today we're gonna
do the cracked glass technique I've
shared this before on my blog in a photo
tutorial but today we're gonna do it on
a video we're gonna start with the
stamped images I colored them with
copics this is the year of flowers
collection set and also the garden
variety set and then I punched them out
with the square punch and what I'm going
to do then with my punch pieces I'm
pressing them right into the Versamark
pad to cover the whole front of the
image with Versamark ink and then once
you get it all covered you want to stick
it right into the embossing enamel we're
using ultra thick embossing an mo or UT
it's thicker than regular embossing
powder that you might be used to using
it's more like a sugar consistency and
it's definitely just like a thicker just
a thicker embossing powder and what I'm
gonna do here is I'm heating the first
layer it's gonna take about three layers
to get at what I'm going for is a really
nice smooth coating over the whole
surface of the image and it's you kind
of have to work fast because you want to
get that image back into that embossing
enamel after you've heated it because
it's when it's warm then it will stick
to the image and here we're doing the
second layer you can already tell it's
definitely smoother but like I said I
usually do about three layers of the
embossing enamel so here we'll do one
more and we'll just heat it one last
time and I apologize my heat gun got
right in the way but you'll be able to
see her in a second
already the nice smooth coating over
that whole front of that image
so then you're gonna take that and
you're gonna let it cool and then we're
gonna go ahead and we're gonna crack it
so let it cool completely I've got a
whole bunch here that I got I do a lot
of the time and you're just bending the
piece and till the embossing enamel
cracks and don't it doesn't matter it's
just paper so if you mess up you
actually if you don't like your cracking
you can totally reheat it again and then
start over I'll do one more here just
bend it and crack it to get that cool
cracked effect then I like to take and
distress it into the cracks so you can
see them better so I'm using a chai tea
dye duo ink and I'm just pressing the
ink pad right on to the cracked image
just bend it and really work it into
those cracks so that you can get a more
definition and kind of more of a vintage
feel to that cracked glass just using a
paper towel to wipe off the excess ink
that's on that on that image and then
just so you can see the difference here
is an image that is not inked on the
little lily of the valley and then the
one that's inked here's my whole little
pile of completed things and we're gonna
put these together in a little card
collection that would be perfect as a
gift we're gonna do craft paper stamped
with true black ink with the flower that
corresponds that I'm gonna put on each
card this is what I'm gonna do the
violet and I'm gonna do a satin ribbon
that goes with the color that goes with
each card so I'm just tying a bow
getting it all set and then just trim
off those ends the completed card here
is four and a quarter by four and a
quarter now to stick the embossed piece
on I'm going to use score tape when
sometimes some the embossing gets on the
back of the piece it can make it a
little tricky for a different adhesives
stick to it so the score tape will make
sure that it's really secured well to
your card front
I just did the top and the bottom we're
just gonna peel the paper off of the
score tape and then make sure it's right
side up and attach it right to your card
front
you make sure you got it where you want
it because once it's down you won't be
able to move it without wall without
tearing the card and then since I didn't
put any tape in the middle I can just
slide that ribbon closer and there's
your card so thanks so much for joining
us today
make sure that you go ahead and
experiment with this technique we'd love
to see the cards and projects that you
make and go to Nicole's blog and post
them so we can all see them thanks so
much everyone
you